# project_hapPyness

Charles Schulz once said that “happiness is a warm puppy”. According to Walt Disney, “happiness is a state of mind” and author, Tom Bodett, offered that "a person needs just three things to be truly happy in this world: Someone to love, something to do, and something to hope for.” For many, happiness is hard to quantify. However, in 2012 the first World Happiness Report was published based on Gallup poll data. This report uses six factors to measure happiness: economic production, social support, life expectancy, freedom, absence of corruption, and generosity. (Tom may have been on to something.)

Our team will be analyzing this data to determine correlations between metrics (such as the relationship between GDP per capita and the happiness index, and life expectancy vs freedom) and across years. We will also focus on the position of the United States on the list, seeing just how we measure up to the happiest and uphappiest nations to start, then going on to further analyze the metrics to see what story they tell. It will also be interesting to see how 2020 compares to years prior, considering the Covid-19 pandemic, widespread social unrest, and the general consensus that it was a terrible year.

The analysis is based on the World Happiness Report from 2016-2020, looking at the happiness score of 155 countries as well as the importance of the six factors of happiness in determining overall happiness in each country. The report continues to gain global recognition as governments, organizations and civil society increasingly use happiness indicators to inform their policy-making decisions. The happiness scores and rankings use data from the Gallup World Poll. The scores are based on answers to the main life evaluation question asked in the poll. 

Data for each year had varied levels of information, such as statistical analyses of the metrics used to determine happiness score. However, as a group, we decided it would be best to pare the data down and focus solely on the 6 metrics used to determine the happiness score and the happiness score itself. Each of us took one year’s data (except for Aashi, who cleaned two!) and dropped the columns we deemed unnecessary. We also prescribed column names and order so that the cleaned data could be merged into one large dataframe, seamlessly. We then noticed that not all of the countries in the data appeared over all 5 years, so we decided to drop the data for those countries altogether. This, we worked on together and discovered the best way to remove these from the data.  We then saved all of the cleaned datasets into CSVs for each year and one that had the data for all years. We read these into a jupyter notebook, that became the starter book for each of us to work from. We also set guidelines for our visualizations so that our final project would be clear and consistent.  


